# CMPE295B-3D-Construction-GAN

3D model construction has gained enormous traction in the last decade with widespread applications in the field of robotics, autonomous driving, face recognition, medical diagnosis, and animation. Generating a 3D model facilitates grasping the volume and depth of the object of interest which is not possible with a single plane of sight. The growing importance of 3D modeling has led to the development of various supervised techniques which use 3D meshes, 3D skeletons, and pre-trained templates as inputs. Since this was resource-intensive, it paved the way for the development of other approaches employing neural networks that enabled 3D object reconstruction. While these results were encouraging, the introduction of Generative Adversarial Network(GAN) architecture generated the 3D structures with better quality than traditional methods. In our research, it is found that GAN can learn the underlying 3D information of objects, therefore can be extensively used in the field of autonomous driving for 3D object reconstruction. Since 3D objects can be reconstructed from 2D images or 3D partial clouds, we detailed our research on various GAN techniques that can achieve this. Finally, we propose a novel pipeline that reconstructs a complete point cloud representation from an object’s partial point cloud generated by LiDARs along with its classification.The proposed technique provides promising results with the KITTI LiDAR scan dataset. <br>

This repository consists of 3D point cloud completion model ([SpareNet](#sparenet)) and point cloud classification model ([PointNet++](#pointnet) ) code which is refactored to accomodate car 3d point cloud completion and classification respectively. <br>

## 3D point cloud completion

All the steps for 3d point cloud completion are detailed in [SpareNet-3D-construction](colab-notebooks/Project-notebooks/SpareNet-3D-construction.ipynb) notebook.

## Point cloud classification

All the steps for point cloud classification are detailed in [PointNet-PCD-Classification](colab-notebooks/Project-notebooks/PointNet-PCD-Classification.ipynb) notebook.

## References

1. <a name='sparenet'>https://github.com/microsoft/SpareNet/</a>
2. <a name='pointnet'>https://github.com/yanx27/Pointnet_Pointnet2_pytorch</a>
